README.md, before:

jspm CLI
===

Browser package management with modular dependency and version management.
https://jspm.io

* Installs version-managed modular packages along with their dependencies from any jspm endpoint, currently supporting GitHub, npm and the [jspm Registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry).
* Carefully resolves version ranges within semver compatibility clearly verifying any version forks.
* Creates the [SystemJS](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs) version configuration file for the package.

[Build into a bundle](#1-creating-a-bundle) or [inject a flat dependency tree for flat multiplexing](#2-creating-a-dependency-cache) in production.

### Example

```
  jspm install npm:voxel-demo

Package.json file does not exist, create it? [yes]: 
Would you like jspm to prefix the jspm package.json properties under jspm? [yes]: 
Enter a name for the project (optional): 
Enter baseURL path [.]: 
Enter project source folder [./lib]: 
Enter project built folder (optional): 
Enter packages folder [./jspm_packages]: 
Enter config file path [./config.js]: 
Configuration file config.js doesn't exist, create it? [yes]: 

     Looking up npm:voxel-demo
     Updating registry cache...
     Looking up npm:gl-now
     Looking up npm:gl-tile-map
     Looking up npm:gl-vao
     Looking up npm:gl-buffer
     Looking up npm:gl-matrix
     Looking up npm:ndarray
     Looking up npm:ndarray-fill
     Looking up npm:ndarray-ops
     Looking up npm:ao-mesher
     Looking up npm:ao-shader
     Looking up npm:gl-shader
     Looking up npm:game-shell
     ...
```

The above populates a `jspm_packages` folder in the current directory, and generates a `config.js` file containing the SystemJS loader configuration.

We can load this demo with:

```html
<!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="config.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('npm:voxel-demo')
    .catch(console.error.bind(console));
  </script>
```


## Getting Started

1. Install jspm CLI:

  ```
    npm install jspm -g
  ```

2. Create a project:

  ```
  cd my-project
  jspm init

  Package.json file does not exist, create it? [yes]: 
  Would you like jspm to prefix the jspm package.json properties under jspm? [yes]: 
  Enter a name for the project (optional): 
  Enter baseURL path [.]: 
  Enter project source folder [./lib]: 
  Enter project built folder (optional): 
  Enter packages folder [./jspm_packages]: 
  Enter config file path [./config.js]: 
  Configuration file config.js doesn't exist, create it? [yes]: 

  ok   Verified package.json at package.json
       Verified config file at config.js
  ```
  
  Sets up the package.json and configuration file.

3. Create the local application folder:
  ```
  mkdir lib
  jspm setmode dev

  ok   Local package URL set to lib.
  ```

  This tells jspm that if we try to load `app`, or any custom name you set for your app, it will look in this folder.

  If you set a custom source folder or application name, these will be used instead.

4. Install any packages from the jspm Registry, GitHub or npm:

  ```
    jspm install npm:lodash-node
    jspm install github:components/jquery
    jspm install jquery
    jspm install myname=npm:underscore
  ```

  Multiple installs can also be combined into a single line separated by spaces.
  
  Any npm or Github package can be installed in this way.
  
  Most npm packages will install without any configuration necessary. Github packages may need to be configured for jspm first. [Read the guide here on configuring packages for jspm](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).
  
  All installs are saved into the package.json, so that the jspm_packages folder and configuration file can be entirely recreated with a single `jspm install` call with no arguments. This is ideal for version-controlled projects where third party packages aren't saved in the repo itself.
  
  The config.js file is updated with the version information and the version is locked down.

5. Write application code using the packages, in any module format you feel like (including ES6):
  
  lib/app.js
  ```javascript
    var _ = require('npm:lodash-node/modern/objects/isEqual');
    var $ = require('jquery');
    var underscore = require('myname');
  
    module.exports = 'app';
  ```

6. In an HTML page include the downloaded SystemJS loader along with the automatically generated configuration file (`config.js`), then load the modules:

  ```html
  <!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="config.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('lib/app')
    .then(console.log.bind(console))
    .catch(console.error.bind(console));
  </script>
  ```

  The above should display `app` in the browser console

* Most npm modules should install without any additional configuration.
* Most Github modules that are not already in the [registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry), will need some package configuration in order to work correctly with `jspm install github:my/module`.

[Read about the production workflows to build a single bundle for production](#production-workflows)

[Read the guide on configuring packages for jspm here](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).

_If you are having any trouble configuring a package for jspm, please just post an issue and we'll help get it configured._

## Installing

### Installing from the jspm Registry

```
  jspm install jquery
```

Automatically downloads and sets the configuration map for the loader.

This is equivalent to writing:

```
  jspm install jquery=github:components/jquery
```

The [jspm registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry) just provides a mapping from a name into an endpoint package name.

### Switching to CDN package sources

The npm and Github endpoints are both served by CDN, which is automatically configured in jspm.

We can switch the CDN version with a single command:

```
  jspm setmode remote
```

This updates the configuration to now load all the packages from the CDN directly instead of the `jspm_packages` folder. The app will still behave identically, but we retain the version-lock configuration.

Revert back to the local files with:

```
  jspm setmode local
```

### jspm inject

If using the CDN version, use `jspm inject` instead of `jspm install`. This will inject the configuration into `config.js` without
downloading the repo to `jspm_packages`, making it a quicker install.

```
  jspm inject jquery

     Updating registry cache...
     Looking up github:components/jquery
ok   Injected jquery as github:components/jquery@^2.1.1 (2.1.1)

ok   Install complete
```

Inject locks down exact versions allowing for a stable development environment.

### Update Installed Packages

```
  jspm update
```

All packages will be checked, and versions upgraded where necessary.

### Command Options

Use `-y` or `--yes` with any command to use the defaults for all prompts.

Use `-f` or `--force` with the install command to overwrite and redownload all dependencies.

Use `-o` or `--override` to force-set the package override for a package that needs extra configuration. See https://github.com/jspm/registry#testing-package-overrides.

## Development Workflows

### Linking

Local linking allows linking local folders to be installed instead of using the remote versions of packages.

Linked packages still need to be linked into a full endpoint, package and version.

```
  cd my-local-package
  jspm link npm:pkg@1.2.3
ok   Package linked.

  cd ../my-jspm-app
  jspm install --link npm:pkg@1.2.3
```

`my-jspm-app` gets a symlink to a globally linked version of `my-local-package`. But changes to `my-local-package` do require
running `jspm link npm:pkg@1.2.3` again to update the link cache, as jspm runs build operations on the package when adding npm compatibility.

### Creating Custom Endpoints

You may wish to create your own custom endpoints, such as a private `npm` repo.

This can be done with:

```
  jspm endpoint create myendpoint jspm-npm
  npm registry to use [https://registry.npmjs.org]: 
  Would you like to configure authentication? [no]: y
  Enter your npm username: mynpmusername
  Enter your npm password: 
```

We now have an `npm` endpoint based on a custom registry and authentication which can be used as expected:

```
  jspm install myendpoint:package
```

You can also configure these same options for the existing `npm` endpoint if using a local npm mirror:

```
  jspm endpoint config npm
```

## Production Workflows

There are two main workflows for production:
1. Compile into a bundle.
2. Cache the dependency tree for flat multiplexing via SPDY / HTTP2.
3. Create a self-executing bundle

### 1. Creating a Bundle

```
  jspm bundle app/main build.js
```

Creates a file `build.js` containing `app/main` and all its dependencies.

We can then load this with a script tag in the page:

```html
<!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="build.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('app/main')
    .catch(function(e) {
      setTimeout(function() {
        throw e;
      });
    });
  </script>
```

Note that bundles also support compiling ES6 code. To try out a demonstration of this, [clone the ES6 demo repo here](https://github.com/jspm/demo-es6).

#### Creating a bundle with arithmetic

```
  jspm bundle app/main - react + moment build.js
```

Creates a file `build.js` containing `app/main` and `moment` and all their dependencies, excluding `react` and all its dependencies.

Bundle commonality is currently in development here - https://github.com/jspm/jspm-cli/issues/133.

#### Loading a bundle automatically (inject)

If you don't want to include the bundle with a script tag, but rather load it only when it is needed, we can do:

```
  jspm bundle app/main main-bundle.js --inject
```

The above will create the bundle, then inject configuration into config.js to tell the SystemJS loader what modules should be loaded from the `main-bundle.js` file.

bundles section in modified config.js
```javascript
...
  "bundles": {
    "main-bundle": [
      "app/my-class",
      "app/main"
    ]
  }
...
```
As soon as one of these modules is requested, the bundle is loaded dynamically.

You can also use arithmetic bundle:

```
  jspm bundle app/main - app/core main-bundle.js --inject
```

This command will make main-bundle.js file with app/main and app/core module excluded.

### 2. Creating a Dependency Cache

The jspm CDN uses SPDY, optimal cache headers, and minified files, making this workflow suitable for production use.

The remaining performance issue is the round trip latency required to load deep dependencies, as we only find out
the dependencies of a module once we have fetched that module, before fetching its dependencies in turn.

We can get around this by injecting the full dependency tree upfront into a dependency cache, so that all dependencies
can be fetched in parallel.

```
  jspm depcache app/main
```

The above will trace the full tree for `app/main` and inject it into the `config.js` **depCache**.

Now any imports will load the full tree in parallel, reducing the latency delay to one round trip.

### 3. Creating a self-executing bundle

To create an output distributable script file that can be used entirely on its own independent of SystemJS and jspm, we can use `bundle-sfx`.

```
  jspm bundle-sfx app/main app.js
```

`app.js` contains a micro-loader implementation (1.4KB gzipped), converts all module formats into ES5 (including compiling ES6), and
maintaining bindings and circular references as with normal bundles.

### Further Reading

* Type `jspm --help` for command list.
* [Read the SystemJS documentation here](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs).
* Add new items to the [jspm registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry) repo by providing a pull request.
* Read more on [configuring packages for jspm](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).

### License

Apache 2.0

Commit message:

Added docs on creating a private registry
Edited README.md to include instructions on creating a private registry, a new registry endpoint and then setting jspm to use that registry endpoint by default.

README.md, after:

jspm CLI
===

Browser package management with modular dependency and version management.
https://jspm.io

* Installs version-managed modular packages along with their dependencies from any jspm endpoint, currently supporting GitHub, npm and the [jspm Registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry).
* Carefully resolves version ranges within semver compatibility clearly verifying any version forks.
* Creates the [SystemJS](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs) version configuration file for the package.

[Build into a bundle](#1-creating-a-bundle) or [inject a flat dependency tree for flat multiplexing](#2-creating-a-dependency-cache) in production.

### Example

```
  jspm install npm:voxel-demo

Package.json file does not exist, create it? [yes]: 
Would you like jspm to prefix the jspm package.json properties under jspm? [yes]: 
Enter a name for the project (optional): 
Enter baseURL path [.]: 
Enter project source folder [./lib]: 
Enter project built folder (optional): 
Enter packages folder [./jspm_packages]: 
Enter config file path [./config.js]: 
Configuration file config.js doesn't exist, create it? [yes]: 

     Looking up npm:voxel-demo
     Updating registry cache...
     Looking up npm:gl-now
     Looking up npm:gl-tile-map
     Looking up npm:gl-vao
     Looking up npm:gl-buffer
     Looking up npm:gl-matrix
     Looking up npm:ndarray
     Looking up npm:ndarray-fill
     Looking up npm:ndarray-ops
     Looking up npm:ao-mesher
     Looking up npm:ao-shader
     Looking up npm:gl-shader
     Looking up npm:game-shell
     ...
```

The above populates a `jspm_packages` folder in the current directory, and generates a `config.js` file containing the SystemJS loader configuration.

We can load this demo with:

```html
<!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="config.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('npm:voxel-demo')
    .catch(console.error.bind(console));
  </script>
```


## Getting Started

1. Install jspm CLI:

  ```
    npm install jspm -g
  ```

2. Create a project:

  ```
  cd my-project
  jspm init

  Package.json file does not exist, create it? [yes]: 
  Would you like jspm to prefix the jspm package.json properties under jspm? [yes]: 
  Enter a name for the project (optional): 
  Enter baseURL path [.]: 
  Enter project source folder [./lib]: 
  Enter project built folder (optional): 
  Enter packages folder [./jspm_packages]: 
  Enter config file path [./config.js]: 
  Configuration file config.js doesn't exist, create it? [yes]: 

  ok   Verified package.json at package.json
       Verified config file at config.js
  ```
  
  Sets up the package.json and configuration file.

3. Create the local application folder:
  ```
  mkdir lib
  jspm setmode dev

  ok   Local package URL set to lib.
  ```

  This tells jspm that if we try to load `app`, or any custom name you set for your app, it will look in this folder.

  If you set a custom source folder or application name, these will be used instead.

4. Install any packages from the jspm Registry, GitHub or npm:

  ```
    jspm install npm:lodash-node
    jspm install github:components/jquery
    jspm install jquery
    jspm install myname=npm:underscore
  ```

  Multiple installs can also be combined into a single line separated by spaces.
  
  Any npm or Github package can be installed in this way.
  
  Most npm packages will install without any configuration necessary. Github packages may need to be configured for jspm first. [Read the guide here on configuring packages for jspm](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).
  
  All installs are saved into the package.json, so that the jspm_packages folder and configuration file can be entirely recreated with a single `jspm install` call with no arguments. This is ideal for version-controlled projects where third party packages aren't saved in the repo itself.
  
  The config.js file is updated with the version information and the version is locked down.

5. Write application code using the packages, in any module format you feel like (including ES6):
  
  lib/app.js
  ```javascript
    var _ = require('npm:lodash-node/modern/objects/isEqual');
    var $ = require('jquery');
    var underscore = require('myname');
  
    module.exports = 'app';
  ```

6. In an HTML page include the downloaded SystemJS loader along with the automatically generated configuration file (`config.js`), then load the modules:

  ```html
  <!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="config.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('lib/app')
    .then(console.log.bind(console))
    .catch(console.error.bind(console));
  </script>
  ```

  The above should display `app` in the browser console

* Most npm modules should install without any additional configuration.
* Most Github modules that are not already in the [registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry), will need some package configuration in order to work correctly with `jspm install github:my/module`.

[Read about the production workflows to build a single bundle for production](#production-workflows)

[Read the guide on configuring packages for jspm here](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).

_If you are having any trouble configuring a package for jspm, please just post an issue and we'll help get it configured._

## Installing

### Installing from the jspm Registry

```
  jspm install jquery
```

Automatically downloads and sets the configuration map for the loader.

This is equivalent to writing:

```
  jspm install jquery=github:components/jquery
```

The [jspm registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry) just provides a mapping from a name into an endpoint package name.

### Switching to CDN package sources

The npm and Github endpoints are both served by CDN, which is automatically configured in jspm.

We can switch the CDN version with a single command:

```
  jspm setmode remote
```

This updates the configuration to now load all the packages from the CDN directly instead of the `jspm_packages` folder. The app will still behave identically, but we retain the version-lock configuration.

Revert back to the local files with:

```
  jspm setmode local
```

### jspm inject

If using the CDN version, use `jspm inject` instead of `jspm install`. This will inject the configuration into `config.js` without
downloading the repo to `jspm_packages`, making it a quicker install.

```
  jspm inject jquery

     Updating registry cache...
     Looking up github:components/jquery
ok   Injected jquery as github:components/jquery@^2.1.1 (2.1.1)

ok   Install complete
```

Inject locks down exact versions allowing for a stable development environment.

### Update Installed Packages

```
  jspm update
```

All packages will be checked, and versions upgraded where necessary.

### Command Options

Use `-y` or `--yes` with any command to use the defaults for all prompts.

Use `-f` or `--force` with the install command to overwrite and redownload all dependencies.

Use `-o` or `--override` to force-set the package override for a package that needs extra configuration. See https://github.com/jspm/registry#testing-package-overrides.

## Development Workflows

### Linking

Local linking allows linking local folders to be installed instead of using the remote versions of packages.

Linked packages still need to be linked into a full endpoint, package and version.

```
  cd my-local-package
  jspm link npm:pkg@1.2.3
ok   Package linked.

  cd ../my-jspm-app
  jspm install --link npm:pkg@1.2.3
```

`my-jspm-app` gets a symlink to a globally linked version of `my-local-package`. But changes to `my-local-package` do require
running `jspm link npm:pkg@1.2.3` again to update the link cache, as jspm runs build operations on the package when adding npm compatibility.

### Creating Custom Endpoints

You may wish to create your own custom endpoints, such as a private `npm` repo.

This can be done with:

```
  jspm endpoint create myendpoint jspm-npm
  npm registry to use [https://registry.npmjs.org]: 
  Would you like to configure authentication? [no]: y
  Enter your npm username: mynpmusername
  Enter your npm password: 
```

We now have an `npm` endpoint based on a custom registry and authentication which can be used as expected:

```
  jspm install myendpoint:package
```

You can also configure these same options for the existing `npm` endpoint if using a local npm mirror:

```
  jspm endpoint config npm
```

### Creating a Private Registry

You may wish to run your own registry instead of using the publicly maintained default. Running your own registry is particularly useful if you are also running other custom endpoints such as a private npm registry as you can use custom endpoint references and include private modules.

A private registry can be created simply by forking the [public registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry). This is for convenience only - so long as the same folder and file structure is used the registry should work.

A private registry can be configured with:

```
  jspm endpoint create my-registry jspm-registry
  Enter the registry repo path [https://github.com/jspm/registry.git]:
```

You can then set it as the default registry with:

```
  jspm config registry my-registry
```

Now when you install or update a module your private registry will be used instead of the public registry.

## Production Workflows

There are two main workflows for production:
1. Compile into a bundle.
2. Cache the dependency tree for flat multiplexing via SPDY / HTTP2.
3. Create a self-executing bundle

### 1. Creating a Bundle

```
  jspm bundle app/main build.js
```

Creates a file `build.js` containing `app/main` and all its dependencies.

We can then load this with a script tag in the page:

```html
<!doctype html>
  <script src="jspm_packages/system.js"></script>
  <script src="build.js"></script>
  <script>
    System.import('app/main')
    .catch(function(e) {
      setTimeout(function() {
        throw e;
      });
    });
  </script>
```

Note that bundles also support compiling ES6 code. To try out a demonstration of this, [clone the ES6 demo repo here](https://github.com/jspm/demo-es6).

#### Creating a bundle with arithmetic

```
  jspm bundle app/main - react + moment build.js
```

Creates a file `build.js` containing `app/main` and `moment` and all their dependencies, excluding `react` and all its dependencies.

Bundle commonality is currently in development here - https://github.com/jspm/jspm-cli/issues/133.

#### Loading a bundle automatically (inject)

If you don't want to include the bundle with a script tag, but rather load it only when it is needed, we can do:

```
  jspm bundle app/main main-bundle.js --inject
```

The above will create the bundle, then inject configuration into config.js to tell the SystemJS loader what modules should be loaded from the `main-bundle.js` file.

bundles section in modified config.js
```javascript
...
  "bundles": {
    "main-bundle": [
      "app/my-class",
      "app/main"
    ]
  }
...
```
As soon as one of these modules is requested, the bundle is loaded dynamically.

You can also use arithmetic bundle:

```
  jspm bundle app/main - app/core main-bundle.js --inject
```

This command will make main-bundle.js file with app/main and app/core module excluded.

### 2. Creating a Dependency Cache

The jspm CDN uses SPDY, optimal cache headers, and minified files, making this workflow suitable for production use.

The remaining performance issue is the round trip latency required to load deep dependencies, as we only find out
the dependencies of a module once we have fetched that module, before fetching its dependencies in turn.

We can get around this by injecting the full dependency tree upfront into a dependency cache, so that all dependencies
can be fetched in parallel.

```
  jspm depcache app/main
```

The above will trace the full tree for `app/main` and inject it into the `config.js` **depCache**.

Now any imports will load the full tree in parallel, reducing the latency delay to one round trip.

### 3. Creating a self-executing bundle

To create an output distributable script file that can be used entirely on its own independent of SystemJS and jspm, we can use `bundle-sfx`.

```
  jspm bundle-sfx app/main app.js
```

`app.js` contains a micro-loader implementation (1.4KB gzipped), converts all module formats into ES5 (including compiling ES6), and
maintaining bindings and circular references as with normal bundles.

### Further Reading

* Type `jspm --help` for command list.
* [Read the SystemJS documentation here](https://github.com/systemjs/systemjs).
* Add new items to the [jspm registry](https://github.com/jspm/registry) repo by providing a pull request.
* Read more on [configuring packages for jspm](https://github.com/jspm/registry/wiki/Configuring-Packages-for-jspm).

### License

Apache 2.0
